---
title: Code Redd Rio de Janeiro
date: 2012-06-19
thumbnail: thumbnail.png 
link_to: portfolio-item
layout: portfolio-item
category: Design &amp; Development
images: 
herovimeoid: 284481275
videos:
description: Architectural projection on UNESCO heritage site for Rio+20 climate summit.
dates: June 19th, 2012
location: Rio de Janeiro
role: Developer
link:
linktext:
collaborators:
  - Obscura Digital
  - CodeREDD Campaign
---
For the Code REDD Campaign launch event, the Arcos da Lapa aqueduct, an impressive example of colonial architecture and engineering constructed in the mid-18th century, was brought to life with architectural mapping and projection designs amplifying the message of the campaign across the arches. Music, creative visualizations, and the Code REDD Campaign film  attracted and immersed the public in a unique and memorable experience designed toshowcase the message of the Code REDD Campaign.

Code REDD is an emergency action campaign designed to harness corporate leadership to save the threatened forests of the world, by dramatically increasing the demand for REDD (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation) emission reductions from the private sector within the voluntary carbon market. Deforestation is an economic problem and REDD is the economic solution that makes forests more valuable alive than dead.

The Code REDD Campaign is a call to action for corporations to act NOW to generate demand in the voluntary carbon market so that REDD can expand as needed to make a large scale impact on deforestation. Code REDD offers a potentially revolutionary solution for forest conservation efforts, by creating a platform that matches forward thinking corporate leaders with REDD project developers willing to develop REDD projects with the highest ethical, technical, and economic developmental standards.

The Code REDD Campaign will be activated in the heart of Rio’s Lapa neighborhood, famous for its historical monuments, lively cultural life, restaurants, and bars, where Brazilian artists, tourists, and intellectuals alike meet to exchange ideas and stories. The launch event will take place on June 19th on the eve of a 3-day holiday declared by Rio’s Mayor Eduardo Paes, when the city will host the UN Conference on Sustainable Development from June 20-22, 2012.