---
title: Dubai 360 Sphere
date: 2015-03-01
thumbnail: thumbnail.png
link_to: portfolio-item
layout: portfolio-item
category: Design &amp; Development
images:
  - F21A8830_edit_00000.jpg
  - F21A8830_edit_00001.jpg
  - F21A8830_edit_00002.jpg
  - F21A8830_edit_00003.jpg
  - F21A8830_edit_00004.jpg
  - F21A8830_edit_00006.jpg
  - F21A8830_edit_00007.jpg
  - F21A8830_edit_00008.jpg
herovimeoid:
videos:
  - 123011724
description: 360-degree immersive media system.
dates: 2015
location: Dubai, UAE
role: Software Director
link:
linktext:
collaborators:
  - Obscura Digital
---
When the team behind the Dubai 360 website wanted to create a life-size interactive experience for their content, they partnered with Obscura for creative innovation.

The goal was to design a physical space where high-quality panoramic content from the Dubai 360 website could be presented in a unique, fully immersive way. Located in the The Dubai Mall, “The Sphere” is the result of a collaboration between the teams.

Visitors step inside The Sphere and walk along a suspended footbridge to the center, where they experience a fast-paced, six-minute film of Dubai shot in 360 degrees. Powered by 18 synchronized projectors, the show includes iconic locations such as Burj Khalifa and The Palm Jumeirah from perspectives never seen before. The Sphere is the world’s largest interactive city tour in the world’s biggest mall—and the first of its kind in the Middle East.

The Sphere showcases Dubai’s pioneering spirit by integrating innovative ideas with technology to promote the wonders of the city. Dubai 360 project manager Ismaeil Al Hashmi said, “The launch of Dubai 360 has established new standards for how people experience a city. The Sphere is another extension of that experience.” Consultant Tommy Wakefield-Smith, who lives in Dubai, observed, “Obscura Digital has demonstrated the incredible possibilities of immersive entertainment and education.”